---
layout: meeting
title: Exercises
meeting: true
meeting_nr: 202109
---

TODO: Exercises for the participants will appear here


# Git / GitHub exercises

1. Fork the repository XYZ

2. Create a pull request doing XYZ

3. ...


# Julia exercises

1. TODO: exercise Vector vs Tuple

2. TODO: exercise `methods`, `methodswith`

3. ...


# Oscar exercises

## Number theory and algebra

1. Vandermonde matrices
    1. Create the polynomial ring $R = \mathbf{Q}[x_1,\dotsc,x_5]$.
    2. Create the Vandermonde matrix $$
        V = (x_i^j)_{1 \leq i \leq 5, 0 \leq j \leq 4} \in R^{5 \times 5}
       $$

    3. Compute and factorize the determinant $det(V)$.
    4. Pick 10 random elements $p \in \mathbf{Q}^5$ and verify that $\det(V)(p) = \det(V(p))$.

    <small>Hint:`PolynomialRing`, `factor`, `rand`, `evaluate`, `map_entries`</small>


2. Invariants of number fields.

    1. Define the number field $K = \mathbf{Q}(\sqrt[3]{65})$.
    2. Determine the ring of integers $\mathcal{O}_K$ and its discriminant.
    3. Determine the class group $\mathrm{Cl}_K$.
    4. Determine the set $S$ of prime ideals of $\mathcal{O}_K$ lying over $2$. Are these ideals ramified?
    5. How large is the subgroup of $\mathrm{Cl}_K$ generated by the classes of $S$?

    <small>Hint: `number_field`, `ring_of_integers`, `discriminant`, `class_group`, `prime_decomposition`, `preimage`.</small>

3. Galois groups

    1. Determine the Galois group of $f = x^3 + x + 1 \in \mathbf{Z}[x]$.
    2. Find a polynomial of degree 6 with the same Galois groups as $f$.
    3. Determine the Galois groups of 10000 random irreducible polynomials in $\mathbf{Z}[x]$ of degree $3$ and coefficients bounded in absolute value by $100$. What is the distribution?
    4. For all transitive groups of order 5, find an irreducible polynomial of degree 5 of $\mathbf{Z}[x]$ with that Galois group.

    <small>Hint: `galois_group`, `number_field`, `normal_closure`, `defining_polynomial`, `rand`, `transitive_group_identification`, `number_transitive_groups`</small>

4. Abelian extensions

    1. Define the number field $K = \mathbf{Q}(\sqrt[3]{2})$.
    2. Find a normal extension $L/K$ such that $\operatorname{Gal}(L/K) \cong \operatorname{C_2} \times \operatorname{C_4}$.
    3. Find a normal extension $L/K$ as in part 2 such that $L/\mathbf{Q}$ is normal.
    4. Determine $\operatorname{Gal}(L/\mathbf{Q})$ for the field found in part 3.

    <small>Hint: `number_field`, `abelian_extensions`, `abelian_normal_extensions`, `automorphism_group`, `galois_group`</small>

5. Determinantal variety

    1. Define the polynomial ring $R = \mathbf{F}_2[x_{ij}_{1 \leq i \leq 3, 1 \leq j \leq 3]$.
    2. Define the matrix $$
        M = (x_{ij})_{1 \leq i \leq 3, 1 \leq j \leq 3} \in R^{3 \times 3}
       $$

    3. Determine the determinantal variety $V$ of size $3 \times 3$ and rank 1, which is defined as the vanishing set of the $2$-minors of $M$.
    4. Determine the dimension of $V$?
    5. Determine $\lvert V(\mathbf{F_2}) \rvert \subseteq \mathbf{F}_2^9$.

    <small>Hint: `polynomial_ring`, `matrix`, `minors`, `dim`, `Oscar.AbstractAlgebra.ProductIterator`.</small>

6. Gröbner bases

    1. Define the polynomial ring $R = \mathbf{Q}[x, y, z]$.
    2. Define the ideal $I = \langle I xy + z, yz − x, zx − y \rangle$.
    3. Determine $\dim(I)$.
    4. Compute a Gröbner basis of $I$ with respect to the lexicographical ordering.
    5. Determine $V(\mathbf{Q})$.
    6. Determine $V(\mathbf{Q}[i])$.

    <small>Hint: `polynomial_ring`, `ideal`, `groebner_basis`, `to_univariate`, `roots`.</small>

7. Integral lattices

    1. Define the $\mathbf{Z}$-lattice $L$ with Gram matrix
       $$
       \begin{pmatrix}
       2 & 1 & 1 \\
       1 & 2 & 1 \\
       1 & 1 & 6
       \end{pmatrix}
       $$
     2. Determine generators $S$ for the automorphism group of $L$ and its order.
     3. Define the matrix group $G = \langle S \rangle \subseteq \operatorname{GL}_3(\mathbf{Q})$.
     4. Determine the maximal subgroups of $G$. Can you find out which group this is?
     5. Determine the class number of $L$.
     6. Find representatives for the isometry classes in the genus of $L$.
     7. Use the mass formula to show that the result of part 6 is correct.

     <small>Hint: `Zlattlice`, `automorphism_group_generators`, `automorphism_group_order`, `maximal_subgroups`, `genus_representatives`, `mass`.</small>

8. Lattices from number fields

    1. Define $K = \mathbf{Q}(\sqrt{2})$.
    2. Determine the $\mathbf{Z}$-lattice $(\mathcal{O}_K, q)$, where $q$ is the quadratic form
    associated to the trace pairing.
    3. Determine the class number of $L$.
    4. Try to represent each isometry class in the genus of $L$ as a lattice attached to a number field.

    <small>Hint: `number_field`, `ring_of_integers`, `tr`, `Zlattice`, `genus_representatives`, `isisometric`.</small>




1. TODO

2. TODO

3. ....

## Group theory

1. TODO

2. TODO

3. ....


## TODO more Oscar topic ....

