---
layout: post
title: Polymake.jl 0.4 has been tagged
author: Marek Kaluba
---

`Polymake.jl` v0.4.0 has been tagged!

Since we're upgrading to support `CxxWrap.jl` `v0.10.1`, we decided to bump the major 
version to force compilation of libpolymake against libcxxwrap-julia. The release has been somewhat hastened by the need for `Oscar.jl` jointly working with the newest `CxxWrap.jl`, so expect `v.0.4.1` and later minor versions rather heavy in added features :)

!!! Note:
We're tracking the version of libcxxwrap-julia used, so that we can warn You
that `import Pkg; Pkg.build("Polymake")` is necessary, but some of the cases
might have slipped us. If you experience crashes while `using Polymake` try:
 * `import Pkg; Pkg.free("CxxWrap")`,
 * `import Pkg; Pkg.build("Polymake")`
 * filing bug report!

Below you can find a summary of the major changes and design decision we have 
taken in the development of Polymake.jl.

Happy coding,
on behalf of polymake Team,
Marek

# Changes between Polymake-0.3 and Polymake-0.4:

## Library updates

* `Polymake.jl` can be used now with `CxxWrap` `^0.10.1`
* `Polymake.jl` uses `LoadFlint.jl` and latest `SingularBuilder`

## New features

* documentation strings of all `polymake` functions and methods was made 
available in julia 
* handling of polynomials should be much smoother
* polymake banner is suppressed when imported in Oscar.jl

## Fixed notable bugs

* `libpolymake` no longer requires GLIBCXX_3.4.26, i.e. Polymake.jl is 
compatible with libstdc++ shipped by julia, even when using very modern Linux 
systems (big thanks to Max Horn for investigating!)
* polymake doesn't grab all interrupts, so after `using Polymake` one can 
still Ctrl^C to interrupt julia. However...

## Known Bugs:

* a Ctrl^C interrupt issued during computations in `polymake` may render 
involved objects into incomplete state which is leads to segfault at `exit()`. 
We can not exclude silent data corruption in the process, so please DO NOT DO 
IT. We will be looking into a proper solution in the near future.
