---
layout: post
title: Polymake.jl-0.5 release
author: Marek Kaluba
---
`Polymake.jl` v0.5.0 has been released!<br/>

The main and show-stealing reason to bump the major version is the transition of `Polymake.jl` from `BinaryBuilder` dependencies to modern Julia artifacts system. Thanks to the transition there is literally no compilation happening during `add Polymake` and all our libraries should be shining and working with each other.<br/>

A huge round of applause is due to @benlorenz, who single-handedly cross-compiled `perl` for MacOsX on a MIPS router dev-board to make this happen. Without him, nobody would dare to look into the eyes of the beast.<br/>

Happy coding, <br/>
on the behalf of polymake Team,<br/>
Marek<br/>

_Note:_<br/>

The package has been split into Julia-only `Polymake.jl` and `C++` library [libpolymake-julia](https://github.com/oscar-system/libpolymake-julia).
While this is much easier for the users (and hopefully less error-prone on our side), the development process is somehow more involved (when working on the `C++` library). This involves setting your own `Overrides.toml` in your package depot as well as compiling and linking the library against current versions of `libcxxwrap_julia` and `libjulia`. Since these come from artifacts the appropriate paths need to be set while `cmake`ing. Example work-flow could look as follows<br/>
```bash
git clone https://github.com/oscar-system/libpolymake-julia
cmake -DJulia_PREFIX=/opt/julia-1.5.1 \ % your julia installation
      -DPolymake_PREFIX=~/.julia/artifacts/eb44608582f284a712e85f226d09d4d2ada2f06c \ % autogenerated artifact
      -DJlCxx_DIR=~/.julia/artifacts/fd5dfb5dee87c41c238d98bd7ff2fdd4f307e824/lib/cmake/JlCxx \ % your cxxwrap_julia artifact
      -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=~/local/prefix \ % your installation prefix
      -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release \
      -S libpolymake-julia -B build
cmake --build build --config Release --target install -- -j2
```

Note that the `Polymake_PREFIX` artifact is generated on the fly and needs to be checked against the `ENV["POLYMAKE_DEPS_TREE"]` which is populated after `using polymake_jll`.<br/>

Additionally `~/.julia/artifacts/Overrides.toml` must contain the following line
```toml
[4d8266f6-2b3b-57e3-ad7a-d431eaaac945]
libpolymake_julia = "/home/user/local/prefix"
```
to replace the library loaded by  Julia.<br/>

For more details please have a look at readme of [libpolymake-julia](https://github.com/oscar-system/libpolymake-julia) or [test-prepare.jl](https://github.com/oscar-system/libpolymake-julia/blob/master/test-prepare.jl) file.

# Changes between Polymake-0.4 and Polymake-0.5:
## Library updates
* `Polymake.jl` can be used now with `CxxWrap` `^0.11`
* `polymake` was upgrated to v4.1 (but you can always bring your own)
* julia compatibility includes v1.5

## New features and changes
* the completion of the interface to `Polydb` using `Mongoc.jl` (@alexej-jordan)
* various functions/types in `topaz` application was wrapped and are available for use (@IvanSpirandelli)
* docstrings imported from `polymake` are now in 1-1 correspondence with docstrings in `polymake`
* the C++ part was split off as a separate `libpolymake-julia` library which is shipped using artifacts framework (@benlorenz)

## Fixed notable bugs
* `libpolymake` no longer requires `GLIBCXX_3.4.26 (again)`, i.e. `Polymake.jl` is compatible with libstdc++ shipped by julia, even when using very modern Linux systems (due to the shift to the artifact system). This may occasionally happen, but only if you're developing `libpolymake-julia`. Then we hope that you know what you're doing :)
* a weird issue with `Polymake.Integer`/`Polymake.Rational` occasionally holding garbage was solved by `GC.@preserve`ing operations on raw pointers, as they always should have been
* `disable_sigint()` was added around `internal_calls` and `internal_give` calls to `libpolymake`, essentially blocking users ability to Ctrl^C during most calls to `polymake`.
